<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 blinry <mail@blinry.org>
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 zormit <nt4u@kpvn.de>
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 Caleb Maclennan <caleb@alerque.com>

SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
-->

# Contributing

We're happy you want to contribute to Teamtype!

Note: This document is in draft form and it's bringing up a few points that are important to us, but isn't expected to be complete yet.

## Compiling the daemon from source

You will need Rust's `cargo` tool.

1. Clone this repository.
2. Enter the cloned directory and run

    ```bash
    cargo build --locked --release
    ```

3. This will create a binary called `target/release/teamtype`, that needs to be added/moved to your shell's `$PATH`.

## REUSE policy

We are following the [REUSE](https://reuse.software) standard for licensing our codebase.

If you have made "significant" contributions (up to your and our [discretion](https://reuse.software/faq/#when-copyright)), we would ask you to add yourself to the REUSE header of the changed files.

We will do this until the number of contributors grow too large and then switch to a [new format](https://reuse.software/faq/#many-copyright-statements).

## Generative AI/LLM policy

We do not accept any contributions that contain content generated by LLMs.
This also includes all written communication on GitHub.
We will close any pull request, issue, or discussion that does not comply to this policy.

## Committing

When committing changes to Git, commit messages should follow the [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) pattern.
Commits of type `feat:`, `fix:`, and `perf:` will become part of the changelog draft during the release process.
Commits of type `chore:`, `ci:`, `docs:`, `style:`, `refactor:`, and `test:` are filtered out unless they are marked as breaking changes.
If in doubt about what type best applies, the most likely culprit is trying to mix multiple types of work and should be split into multiple commits.

Note that the commit type `fix:` should only be applied to commits that fix a bug *in an existing tagged release*.
If the bug being fixed is only on the default branch but not yet released, `chore:` is suitable to not generate irrelevant changelog entries.
If the bug being fixed is only in an un-merged branch, just amend the commit that introduced the bug to the development cycle.
Likewise follow up work on something already called out since the last release as a new feature via `feat:` should just be `chore:` or similar.
